and we can speak now with Mahmud Al Kash
sir you're an English teacher in Gaza
you're joining us uh from Rafa on this
first day of Ramadan thank you for your
time today how are you and your family
doing yes uh actually as I'm a displac
person among all of uh these tens of
thousands of dis displ persons you can
see that it's uh k cic situation now
yes so obviously Ramadan being uh a
actually uh sorry go ahead if I can say
that yes okay just to talk about the
life here it's it's very gloy and
miserable situations hard circumstances
uh we find difficulties in how to get
food because you know even when we get
food this the prices are in the sky it's
very expensive it's doubled like 10
times then before the war and actually
I'm nowadays working as a volunteer for
many uh kitchens uh actually tea
charitable kitchens or sou kitchens and
one of them
is it's
called and in this kitchen they provide
food hot meals for tens of thousands of
displaced families who are now suffering
in the camps in the shelters around this
area in Rafa City
yes I was going to ask you where do you
pray given that so many of the mosques
across the Gaza Strip have been either
badly damaged or completely
destroyed actually there are still some
MOS that we can pray at but when we want
to take the decision to go to the mosque
to tray actually a lot of people people
are afraid to go to the mosque because
you know that a lot of mosque are
attacked so it's like a difficult
situation to go to pray and you know
that they may attack this situation a
lot of rockets May destroy everything
around so it's a bit a little bit
difficult and some uh prayers we pray at
home and even for people who are now uh
you can imagine that in a small tent and
it's very crowded at least 10 or 15
persons in a small tent uh with no food
no clothes uh no money no job so they
are wondering every day how can they get
food so this puts more pressure upon the
father who's responsible for this family
actually this happens every day so we
try our best to provide food for these
people and to alleviate the pain to
relieve the pain but actually all of our
attempts not all of them are in vain but
it's not enough at
all I I'd like to ask you a question
about faith and spirituality in a time
of War uh Ramadan is a time for
reflection what are you able how do you
exercise your faith and and what are you
able to reflect on when as you explain
to us
you're looking for enough food to feed
you and your relatives you're at any
moment uh at every moment you are in
danger of being bombed and you've been
displaced you're not living in your home
what can you reflect on under those
circumstances actually uh for me I'm a
father of uh little kids so when there
is a nearby bomb so my children for sure
they are crying and I must hug them at
least to relieve their pain and to to
relieve this suffering at that moment
but actually it has a lot of uh effects
on them even after this war a lot of
suffering will remain in this area after
this uh genocide so for uh let me talk
about the part of food actually when uh
one person or one father who has a
family after evacuating Under Fire and
walking for nearly uh maybe 30 kilomet
all of this area after escaping from
fire when they suddenly found themselves
in a small tent so how can he provide
food in this way he is forced to go to
some kitchens and you know a lot of
people are crowded in this free kitchen
to get food and some people are maybe
hard maybe their dignity are hard in
this in this uh place so uh we we talk
about a very complicated situation we
took about a gloomy atmosphere and there
is no light at the end of the tunnel all
of people are now in the first day of
Ramadan you know they have no gas to
cook for food forar you know fasting for
almost 15 hours in a day and then you
want to eat after being so hungry so you
can't find the enough food you can't
find fire even if you want to uh
purchase some uh wood to uh I mean
sticks of food
to uh burn the fire you know it hurts
you because uh the black VOR comes
inside the nose the eyes Sir and this
even happens for me many
times very difficult for us but we have
no choice what you mentioned that you
were a father what do you tell your
children at the moment how do you parent
in a situation like this
one ah actually uh some times maybe I
succeed to let me say to deceive them
and to tell them that I will buy for you
the the food maybe after 2 hours 3 hours
until they can just go to sleep and
sometimes I can provide for them it
depends on the situation and the current
state in the shop and the
prices all right mahm Al Kash you're an
English teacher in Gaza thank you very
much for uh joining us this hour thank
you for your time and sharing all that
with
us thank